---
id: 297
title: Lotusphere 2012
date: 2011-12-20T18:49:34+00:00
author: ryanjbaxter
layout: post
guid: http://ryanjbaxter.com/?p=297
permalink: /2011/12/20/lotusphere-2012/
categories:
  - Lotus
  - Lotusphere
  - Lotusphere 2012
  - OpenSocial
  - Web Development
---
It is that time of the year again, Lotusphere 2012 is just around the corner.  I am a little late to the game this year, I have known about my sessions for a few weeks now but haven&#8217;t had the time to blog about them.  As always I will be in the lab, and encourage everyone attending to head to the labs at one point during the week.  The developers are there to answer your questions.  Even if you want to come in and just chat, I encourage you to take advantage of the one on one opportunity to talk with the people who build the products you use.

So to the sessions, I am doing two sessions this year and one BOF.  All of them have something to do with OpenSocial.

> ### Session SHOW115: Socialize your Applications using OpenSocial
> 
> Speakers: Ryan J. Baxter, IBM and Stanton Sievers, IBM | Tech level: * | Date: Tuesday, January 17 | Time: 08:00 AM &#8211; 09:45 AM
> 
> <div>
>   <p>
>     This show and tell session shows you how to get started with OpenSocial Gadgets and how to turn an existing application into a social application. We start with a simple Domino application and take you step by step through the process to create an embedded experience using a gadget that can be surfaced in your inbox or ActivityStream. We cover OAuth, Declarative Actions, Activity Streams, and the social APIs to build gadgets that take advantage of the latest features coming in Notes Social Edition and Connections.
>   </p>
>   
>   <p>
>     &nbsp;
>   </p>
>   
>   <h3>
>     Session AD115: Extending IBM Lotus Notes & IBM Lotus iNotes with OpenSocial
>   </h3>
>   
>   <p>
>     Speakers: Andrew Davis, IBM and Ryan J. Baxter, IBM | Tech level: ** | Date: Tuesday, January 17 | Time: 01:30 PM &#8211; 02:30 PM | Location: S. Hem I
>   </p>
>   
>   <div>
>     <p>
>       Come see how to use OpenSocial gadgets and embedded experiences to put social business right into your inbox. OpenSocial has transformed from a consumer standard for gadgets to an enterprise integration point for contextual collaboration. We will show you how to socialize your email experience with the latest business process integration from IBM and IBM Business Partners, and bring social awareness to your users without changing where they work today.
>     </p>
>     
>     <p>
>       &nbsp;
>     </p>
>   </div>
> </div>

<div>
  <div>
    <p>
      The Show n Tell session will deep dive on how you can send embedded experiences through email and post embedded experiences to activity streams.  I am really excited about this session because it begins to show the real code behind all those Vulcan demos we have seen over the past 2 years.  And for all you XPage developers, I will be doing this using an XPage application, so be sure to attend!
    </p>
    
    <p>
      The application development session is a high level overview of how Notes and iNotes will be leveraging OpenSocial.  This is a high level overview with some live demos, using REAL CODE!  I encourage everyone to come to both of these sessions if they can.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Finally I will be facilitating a BOF on OpenSocial and Activity Streams.  If you have any questions on either of these two standards in relation to any of the IBM products I encourage you to attend.  This is your chance to ask your questions in an intimate setting.  You will be talking to the people who are shaping the specs so these are the experts in these areas.  I don&#8217;t have the details on the BOF yet but they should be posted soon.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Some sessions I am interested in attending&#8230;
    </p>
    
    <blockquote>
      <h3>
        Session AD116: What&#8217;s new in IBM Lotus Notes Widgets and LiveText: Linking Your Data to the World!
      </h3>
      
      <p>
        Speakers: Andrew Davis, IBM and Brian Bauman, IBM | Tech level: * | Date: Wednesday, January 18 | Time: 03:00 PM &#8211; 04:00 PM | Location: N. Hem D
      </p>
      
      <div>
        <p>
          Live Text allows users to act on recognized content &#8212; for example, click on a flight number to check a flight status. You can extend Live Text and Widgets so that IBM Lotus Notes and IBM Lotus Symphony documents recognize additional content, and integrate third party services (web sites, Google gadgets, feeds, etc) to help increase productivity. We demonstrate existing and future features, and end the session by taking challenges from the audience to build a widget from your ideas! This session also includes a preview of features in Lotus Notes Social Edition, including LiveText and Widgets in IBM Lotus iNotes, and OpenSocial Widgets.
        </p>
        
        <h3>
          Session AD202: Social Business Standards: Making Social Work
        </h3>
        
        <p>
          Speakers: Bill Looby, IBM and Jason Gary, IBM | Time: 01:00 PM &#8211; 02:00 PM | Location: S. Hem III
        </p>
        
        <div>
          <p>
            You have heard of Social Business, but are you aware of IBM&#8217;s leadership in the current and emerging social standards that make Social Business a reality? In this session we explore OpenSocial, ActivityStreams, OAuth, and many other social orientated standards that are responsible for the dramatic growth of social in the enterprise. See how these standards are evolving, how IBM and its customers are leading the way in Social Business standards, and where the use of these standards in IBM products will change enterprise computing.
          </p>
          
          <h3>
            Session AD103: Embracing the Eclipse Within
          </h3>
          
          <p>
            Speaker: Maureen G. Leland, IBM | Tech level: ** | Date: Wednesday, January 18 | Time: 10:00 AM &#8211; 11:00 AM | Location: SW 9 &#8211; 10
          </p>
          
          <div>
            <p>
              While IBM Lotus Domino Designer presents a familiar face to longtime users, many of the Eclipse platform capabilities await you like hidden jewels. This session describes a collection of useful Eclipse tricks that you may not have yet discovered, and will encourage you to embrace the Eclipse within. From extension points to core Eclipse function, this session opens the door to a more productive development life for you!
            </p>
            
            <h3>
              Session AD104: IBM Lotus Domino XPages Made Social
            </h3>
            
            <p>
              Speaker: Philippe Riand, IBM | Date: Thursday, January 19 | Time: 11:15 AM &#8211; 12:15 PM | Location: S. Hem I
            </p>
            
            <div>
              <p>
                Domino XPages is on the fast track to help make your applications social. Come to this session to see the latest contributions to the extension library for Social Business. Learn how to consume and contribute to any Social API, provided by IBM or third parties like Facebook or Twitter. Turn your XPages into reusable gadgets that participate in embedded experiences. XPages is ready today, are you?
              </p>
              
              <h3>
                Session JMP205: Empowering the Exceptional Web Experience with the IBM Social Business Toolkit
              </h3>
              
              <p>
                Speakers: Paul Bastide, IBM and Mike Taylor, IBM | Time: 10:30 AM &#8211; 12:30 PM
              </p>
              
              <div>
                <p>
                  The IBM Social Business Toolkit introduces an expanded set of techniques and tools to make your applications social. Learn the capabilities available to create custom applications for your business that deliver an exceptional web experience. Add collaboration to your applications through the use of open standards, such as Activity Streams and Open Social, and learn to capture these technologies in a repeatable method for use across multiple applications.
                </p>
                
                <h3>
                  Session FS216: Social App Throwdown
                </h3>
                
                <p>
                  Speakers: Doug Cox, IBM and Kevin Cavanaugh, IBM | Tech level: * | Time: 05:30 PM &#8211; 06:30 PM | Location: N. Hem A-C
                </p>
                
                <div>
                  <p>
                    Join Doug Cox and Kevin Cavanaugh as they host a live throwdown of social applications from IBM Business Partners. Using capabilities in upcoming releases of IBM&#8217;s collaboration software, the apps will span a variety of disciplines and will show the value &#8211; for both people and organizations &#8211; of becoming a social business. Come and see these real solutions and be a part of the next generation of social applications.
                  </p>
                  
                  <p>
                    &nbsp;
                  </p>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </blockquote>
    
    <div>
      <div>
        <div>
          <div>
            <div>
              <div>
                <p>
                  I am particularly excited to attend the Social App Throwdown.  I have been working with some of the partners participating in the throwdown and they are building some cool apps!
                </p>
                
                <p>
                  I will be getting to the Dolphin around 1PM on Sunday, let the countdown begin!
                </p>
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>